<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF8'?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0">
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>HGB 1 2/96 S. [7]</title>
        <editor>Ismail Prada Ziegler</editor>
        <sponsor>Departement of History, Faculty of Philosophy and History, University of Basel</sponsor>
        <sponsor>Digital Humanities, Walter-Benjamin-Kolleg, University of Bern</sponsor>
        <funder>Schweizerischer Nationalfonds (SNF)</funder>
        <principal>Lucas Burkart</principal>
        <principal>Tobias Hodel</principal>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Ismail Prada Ziegler</name>
          <resp>annotation, postprocessing</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Benjamin Hitz</name>
          <resp>transcription, annotation</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Katrin Fuchs</name>
          <resp>transcription, annotation</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Aline Vonwiller</name>
          <resp>transcription</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Jonas Aeby</name>
          <resp>automated transcription</resp>
        </respStmt>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>This file was created as part of the Economies of Space project by a team from the University of Basel and the University of Berne. Published in August of 2025.</p>
      </publicationStmt>
      <seriesStmt>
        <title>Manually annotated Ground Truth from the Historical Land Records of Basel.</title>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Ismail Prada Ziegler</name>
          <resp>compiler</resp>
        </respStmt>
      </seriesStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <listBibl>
          <desc>This document is a digitalization of a register card which holds an excerpt from an original source document. The register-item element holds information pertaining to the register card while the source element names the original archive or corpus the excerpt was taken from. The date given under profileDesc/creation/date refers to the creation of the original document, the exact date of creation of the register item is unknown.</desc>
          <bibl type="register-item">
            <title>Aeschenvorstadt 18</title>
            <idno>HGB 1 2/96</idno>
            <ref>https://ld.bs.ch/ais/Record/1432897</ref>
          </bibl>
          <bibl type="source">
            <title>Gerichtsarchiv</title>
          </bibl>
        </listBibl>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <encodingDesc>
      <projectDesc>
        <p>Manually annotated text for machine training and evaluation purposes in the project Economies of Space.</p>
      </projectDesc>
      <classDecl>
        <taxonomy xml:id="lv95">
          <desc>Coordinates in CH1903+ / LV95 (EPSG:2056)</desc>
        </taxonomy>
      </classDecl>
    </encodingDesc>
    <profileDesc>
      <creation>
        <date when="1446">1446</date>
      </creation>
      <langUsage>
        <language ident="de">German</language>
      </langUsage>
      <settingDesc>
        <place>
          <location>
            <geo decls="#lv95">2611605.8615032975 1266934.0265282847</geo>
            <desc>Location of the main property the document is about.</desc>
          </location>
        </place>
      </settingDesc>
    </profileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <body>
      <ab><persName>Hans von Pltingen</persName>
mit willen <persName>Frantzen Eltingers</persName>
zins vatter , ouch <persName>Angnes</persName> desselben <persName>Frantzen</persName>
Ewirtin , verkauft an <persName>Peter Schützen</persName>
den Rebman , daz Hus &amp; Hofstatt mit dem garten derhinder , als es gelegen ist in der vorstatt ze <placeName>Eschemerthor</placeName>
, ư genant zem Haffen , nebent der Brennerin hus genant zem trachen ze einer siten , u . <persName>Clewin Gottschis</persName>
hus den man sprichet zem Widershom zer andern siten , zinset voneig . der Thumprobstye <measure type="currency">11 becher Bonen</measure>
, um <measure type="currency">163 fl .</measure></ab>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI>
